# MindQuest Development Summary

For this project, I wanted to develop an application that solves three issues: how to manage personal tasks, how to manage one’s thoughts and how to stay motivated enough to perform both activities regularly. Secondly, I wanted AI to help analyze these thoughts. After discussing these themes with Google’s Gemini LLM, we decided to work on MindQuest.

My main goal for this project was to set up the application to run from a command line that includes three separate parts that work together: 
1.	Quests: A to-do list where the user earns rewards by completing tasks.
2.	Journal: A space to log in thoughts and ideas.
3.	XP System: A leveling system that tracks your project, similar to what a game might do to keep the user motivated.

For this project, I used Visual Studio Code for coding in Python and documentation, and GitHub for store and track my project history. I also utilized the spec-kit Specify to create the blueprint for my project. The database used to store all Quests, Journal Entries and Character data was SQLite. My Command Line Interface was Windows PowerShell to execute commands. I used OpenAI to generate the project’s API Key and the AI Assistant for this project was Google’s Gemini. 

My use of AI in this project involved discussing themes and getting conceptual assistance when I encountered bugs (understanding error messages and how to approach them), while keeping all coding and implementation decisions on my own.

The project was built over a period of time where each homework (tasks 1 to 5) taught one necessary skill to help construct the final project. Tasks 1 and 2 involved understanding data storage. I learnt how to save data to a simple text file, JSON. Then I upgraded the system to use a proper and more efficient database, in my case SQLite. I made this change to ensure that the database is faster and more reliable than a simple text file. The only minor issues I faced in this part was missing a few syntax issues, such as forgetting a comma, which were easy to fix on my own.

For task 3, I was assigned to integrate the ‘pytest’ testing framework and organizing the code in a ‘src’ package structure. I successfully set up the ‘src’ folder, configured the ‘pyproject.toml’ file and wrote unit tests for the core functions of my application like ‘get_tasks, ‘inc’’, etc. A configuration error was faced here as the testing environment was failing repeatedly with the “collected 0 items” errors because the testing tool could not find my application files. To fix this, I manually added “__init__.py” to source folders and updated the ‘pyproject.toml’ file to correctly define the structure for the test.

I had to build a Python script to connect to OpenAI API and request test analysis for task 4. The first issue occurred when the script failed to load the required secret key. To fix this, I had to use the ‘python-dotenv’ library and variables to ensure that the key is not visible in the code to maintain security. The second issue was that the code kept receiving an external “Error Code 429”: insufficient quota" message. However, I realized that that was mainly an external credits issue. 

Task 5 is where it got slightly more challenging. I had to use GitHub’s Blueprint Lab: Specify. I attempted to use the ‘spec-kit’ tool to automate the project generation. The file ‘spec.md’ was supposed to be the blueprint for the final project. However, the tool failed to install due to a dependency bug when I selected Gemini AI. Due to this, the tool did not create any necessary automation scripted, such as the ‘plan.ps1’, ‘implement.ps1’, etc. For a temporary solution, I tried to fix it manually. After consulting the professor regarding this issue, the solution recommended was to bypass the broken command line tool and download the PowerShell template ZIP file, which provided a set of stable and working scripts, which were copied into the repository.

To finalize my project, I complied and merged all the tasks into the Final MindQuest application. I modified the code to have an XP System, allowing the creation of the ‘character’ table and the correct execution of the ‘grant_xp’ and ‘level-up’ login when a quest is completed. Along with that, a function ‘analyze-sentiment’ was integrated, which calls the external AI, and the ‘add_journal_entry’ function to save the resulting score into the new ‘sentiment_score’ column in the database. Lastly, I built a ‘mindquest mood board’ command which searches the database for entries over the last seven days, calculates the average mood, and displays an emoji based summary. When combining all functions, the program crashed and gave the message: “sqlite3.OperationalError: database is locked”, meaning the simultaneous combination od separate databases caused a system deadlock. To fix this, I created ‘get_db_connection’ which would hand out the key to the database. Using a ‘with’ statement with ever database function stopped them from fighting over the database to ensure the application runs in a more stable way.  

The project successfully met all technical requirements and helped me understand the use of professional tools, addressing critical errors and integrate AI professionally. 
